# Contributing to PZChessBot

Hello and welcome to PZChessBot! We are very excited that you are interested in contributing to our project. Please make sure to read this guide carefully to understand how you can contribute effectively. Failure to follow these guidelines may result in your contributions being rejected or not reviewed at all.

As a note, while we welcome contributions of all kinds, it is **strongly recommended** to not submit pull requests that are mostly or completely generated by LLMs. Currently, we have found that LLM-generated code is not up to the standards of our codebase and often requires significant refactoring to be usable. 

You are welcome to use LLMs to assist you in writing code, but please ensure that the final code is of high quality and adheres to our standards before submitting a pull request. If you decide to submit LLM-generated code anyway, your pull request may be closed without review.

## Table of Contents

- [Building PZ](#building-pz)
- [Making Contributions](#making-contributions)
  - [Reporting Issues](#reporting-issues)
  - [Submitting Pull Requests](#submitting-pull-requests)
  - [Scope Expectations](#scope-expectations)
- [Code Style](#code-style)

## Building PZ

Instructions are available in the README. In the nicest way possible, if you are struggling to build the project, please don't submit a pull request.

Note that we currently do not support CPUs without AVX2 support. This also includes Apple silicon and ARM CPUs. However, we have plans to add support soon.

## Making Contributions

Please ensure all contributions (if they change behavior of the program) are tested via SPRT. This is to ensure that PZChessBot does not regress in strength. If possible, include SPRT results in your pull request description.

If your contribution does not change behavior (i.e. is a refactor or speed-up), please ensure that it is tested via a benchmark.

### Reporting Issues

If you notice a bug or find behavior uncharacteristic of a top chess engine (e.g. bad moves in simple positions, sudden jumps in evaluation), please report it by opening an issue on GitHub. When reporting an issue, please provide as much detail as possible, including:
- The position at which the problem occurs
- The moves leading up to the position (ideally)
- Expected behavior vs. actual behavior
- CPU and operating system details

### Submitting Pull Requests

In your pull request, please provide SPRT results and a line with the number of nodes emitted after executing `./pzchessbot bench`. In the last commit of the pull request, please also include a bench number in the commit message (e.g. "Bench: 1111111"). This will allow the CI to run and verify deterministic behavior.

## Scope Expectations

Please keep pull requests focused on incremental changes or improvements. That is:
- Avoid broad refactors that change a large portion of the codebase
- Do not modify external code at all. If you notice a bug, please report it to the original author
- Do not make changes that are not directly related to the purpose of the pull request

## Code Style

We really aren't picky when it comes to code style, but we ask that you follow the existing style of the codebase as much as possible. We don't use a formatter, but we do have some general guidelines:
- Tab indentation only
- Avoid trailing whitespace
- Use reasonable variable names
- Try not to make lines too long
- When adding a new parameter, add it to `params.hpp`
- Just try to use common sense and be consistent with the existing code!

## License

By contributing to PZChessBot, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the GNU Affero General Public License v3.0.

Thank you for contributing to PZChessBot and helping us make it even better!
